how can we turn from tumors into
bloomers as a 30 something year old guy
who has had his fair share of Doomer
phases in life I would like to tell you
how I discovered the causes of these
dark periods within myself and changed
for the better
[Music]
first of all I want to thank my latest
patreon supporters Thank You adonus
Thank You Lars
Thank You Kevin and thank you mark your
support is very much appreciated so
let's begin I believe that most guys
that call themselves boomers are a bit
younger than myself but the do MERS
suffering isn't anything new it just
comes in a different form 19th century
Danish philosopher Soren Kierkegaard
experienced a condition called
melancholia and even the Buddha dealt
with existential suffering before he
became enlightened I remember a time in
my twenties in which I was miserable and
jaded towards the world which was partly
because of traumatic experiences in my
youth and partly existential this state
repeated itself twice in my early 30s
and I found relief in a substance called
alcohol I was a binge drinker and I also
drank to ease my anxiety sometimes I
even drank in the morning before I
stepped out of the door into a hostile
world when I think back about those
times I see myself lying in my bed with
a hangover from the previous night
browsing the internet on my laptop my
then-girlfriend was probably out of the
house either at work or at Scala
so I had the time to indulge in my other
guilty pleasure
besides Bourne conspiracy videos so
every day I absorbed all this
information on how humanity is doomed
how we are nothing more than servants of
the Illuminati how the world is going to
end in 2012 and how george w bush was
actually a member of the reptilian race
that's here on earth to enslave us on
some days I was too anxious to leave the
house on other days I did leave the
house to go to my internship and I took
a sip of water to start the day when I
took public transport I listened to the
most depressing music I could find at a
time
just to dwell in bleakness while seeing
shades of grey passing by the years that
followed were characterized by mental
instability and substance abuse
I experienced faces of great pleasure
and joy social connections and faces of
anhedonia which is a mind state in which
one doesn't feel any joy or pleasure
anymore during that time I had my
highest highs and lowest note
it was only a few years ago that I
discovered why I was so prone to these
periods of darkness a personality test
the same test as famous dr. George
Peterson always talks about showed me
that I was high in neuroticism as well
as openness and with high I mean
extremely high both traits were almost
maxed out now when I think of it I'm not
surprised as I was back then
do Murs are very prone to a phenomenon
called Welsh myths
Welsh myths is a pain and sadness one
can experience because of the world's
imperfections no matter if it's war
poverty injustice genetic inequality a
Doomer is attracted to the same thing
that hurts the most the dark side of
life and the pain that comes with it he
is a masochist and so was I taking
interest in the world's suffering as
well as swallowing the proverbial
red pill requires a degree of openness
as opposed to many blue pill people that
reside in blissful ignorance we are
receptive to a plethora of ideas and
theories they are fuel for a wild
imagination and not uncommon inspiration
for our creative pursuits a danger of
being high in openness is that it often
goes together with emotional instability
this is where a trait neuroticism comes
in scoring high on the trade neuroticism
means being emotionally very reactive
this can cause the following sub-trades
anxiety anger depression
self-consciousness in moderation and
vulnerability having been through these
tumor phases myself seeing the Doomer
feels like I can look into his soul and
see that openness and neuroticism are a
constant war with each other while
feeding each other at the same time a
Doomer cannot stop looking into the
abyss this enforces his neuroticism and
his neuroticism drives him to continue
his expedition in the dark places of
humanity even more dares are not saying
curiosity killed the cat
I discovered that because of my
imagination my passion for ideas my
sensitivity
and deep emotional states my life was
all over the place I coped with my
reactiveness towards outside events by
indulging in pleasure like entertainment
sex porn food and last but not least
drinking myself into a coma
this had to change dr. Jordan Peterson
taught me what I already knew deep
inside to become more emotionally stable
I had to increase my conscientiousness
over the years I began to prioritize a
clean living environment using an agenda
planning getting my finances in order
going to the gym on a regular basis
going to bed early getting up early
eating healthy and cutting back the use
of substances dramatically being single
gave me the opportunity to spend lots of
time in solitude reflecting on the past
figuring out what's best for me slowly I
started going from chaos to order this
made life a bit more predictable I
became more resilient to unexpected
changes also it became easier to dwell
in the present moment because a
well-ordered living environment helps to
calm the mind conscientiousness
is something within our control stoic
philosopher Epictetus basically said
that we should focus on our own actions
so increasing our conscientiousness to
improve our life situation is quite a
stoic thing to do in practice this comes
down to discipline I was an avid reader
of philosophy at the time already and
discipline makes the difference between
understanding philosophy and truly
applying it as a creative person my life
changes led to channeling my creativity
into productivity this took some trial
and error because too much structure can
limit and even destroy creativity so I
had to find a balance that worked for me
for me increasing my conscientiousness
was the key for a more meaningful
existence in a meaningless universe my
mood went up and I slowly climbed out of
the darkness like a flower growing out
of a dumping ground a 30 something year
old bloomer
arose who is less needy less neurotic
more determined and with respect for the
little things in life struggling for
years with my personality and being
introverted as well
it was often extremely difficult to cope
with the outside world by all means
transitioning into a more positive
productive and overall more happy person
wasn't a linear process and yes I still
have my dark moments from time to time
that are often in correlation with a
lack of conscientiousness the days
before turning my back to substance
abuse and living disciplined has really
saved my life and it's getting better
and better every year
if you consider yourself a tumor and you
can relate to my story you might want to
give increasing your conscientiousness a
try thank you for watching
[Music]